on a certain summer day a few years ago the little village of briggsville in pennsylvania was thrown into a state of excitement the like of which was never known since the fearful night a hundred years before when a band of red men descended like a cyclone upon the little hamlet with its blockhouse and left barely a dozen settlers alive to tell the story of the visitation to their descendants.  tom gordon lived a mile from briggsville with his widowed mother and his aunt cynthia a sister to his father who had died five years before.  the boy had no brother or sister and as he was bright truthful goodtempered quick of perception and obedient it can be well understood that he was the pride and hope of his mother and aunt whose circumstances were of the humblest nature. he attended the village school where he was the most popular and promising of the threescore pupils under the care of the crabbed mr. jenkins. he was as active of body as mind and took the lead among boys of his own age in athletic sports and feats of dexterity.  one summer day the village of briggsville blazed out in black and red and white every available space being covered with immense posters which in flaming scenes and gigantic type announced the coming of joness  co.s great moral menagerie and transcontinental circus on its triumphal tour through the united states and canada.  naturally a tremendous excitement set in among the boys who began hoarding their pennies and behaving with supernatural propriety so that nothing should interfere with the treat which in exquisite enjoyment can never be equaled by anything that could come to them in afterlife.  tom gordon had never yet seen the inside of a circus and menagerie and as his mother promised him that the enjoyment should be his it is impossible to describe his state of mind for the days and nights preceding the visit of the grand aggregation the like of which according to the overwhelming posters the world had never known before. he studied the enormous pictures with their tigers bears leopards and panthers the size of a meetinghouse their elephants of mountainous proportions and the daring acrobats contortionists and performers whose feats made one hold ones breath while gazing in awe at their impossible performances. the lad dreamed of them at night talked about them through the day and discussed with his most intimate friends the project of forming a circus of their own when they became bigger and older. the latter project it may be added owing to unforeseen obstacles never assumed definite form.  but alas this is a world of disappointment. on the morning of the circus tom was seized with a violent chill which almost shook him out of his shoes. he tried with might and main to master it for he well knew that if he did not his visit to the wonderful show must be postponed indefinitely. he strove like a hero and was actually sick several hours before the watchful eyes of his mother and aunt discovered his plight. the moment came when he could hold out no longer with his teeth rattling like castanets and his red face so hot that it was painful to the touch. since the performance did not open until two oclock in the afternoon he did not as yet abandon all hope.  his mother and aunt sympathized with him but although he rallied to a great extent from his illness they could not give consent for him to leave the house. he partook of refreshment and left his bed at noon. at two oclock he was able to sit in the chair by the window with his fever greatly abated and an hour later he was as free from all traces of the ague as you or i.  but it was then too late to go to the circus. the disappointment was a sore one but the lad stood it like the really brave fellow he was. he swallowed the lump in his throat and smiled as he said to his aunt  when the circus comes again i dont think ill have a chill.  and you shall see it if you are alive thenof that be assured.  the day was one of the most pleasant and balmy of the season and tom walked out of the house leaned on the gate and looked up and down the highway.  suddenly he observed a span of horses coming on a gallop while the driver of the open wagon was lashing them with his whip and urging them to still greater speed.  they arent running away mused the astonished boy for if they were the man wouldnt be trying to make them run faster. its mr. macdowell i never saw him drive faster than a walk before something dreadful must have happened.  as mr. macdowell caught sight of the boy and came opposite he shouted something and with an expression of terror glanced around and pointed with his whip behind him. the furious rattle of the wagon prevented toms catching the words and the terrified farmer did not repeat them but lashed his team harder than ever vanishing in a cloud of dust raised by his own wheels.  he must be crazy said tom unable to think of any other explanation of the old mans frantic behavior.  the lad stood with his head turned toward the cloud of dust wondering and speculating over the strange affair when hurried footsteps caused him to turn quickly and look again in the direction of the village.  this time it was jim travers who was panting from his running and whose face was a picture of consternation equal to that of farmer macdowell.  whats the matter jim asked tom as his schoolmate reached him.  o tom aint it awful gasped the new arrival coming to a halt still panting and casting affrighted glances in the direction of briggsville.  aint what awful  gracious haint you heard the news i thought everybody knowed it.  and the tired boy took off his hat and rubbed his sleeve across his steaming forehead as though his expression of surprise at toms ignorance communicated of itself the news to him. tom as may be supposed was on needles for as yet he had not received the first hint of the occurrence which certainly must have been of a stirring nature.  sam harper jack habersham and bill dunhamall killed before any one could help em did you ever hear of anything like it continued jim.  i havent heard of that yet. i dont know what youre talking about jim if you cant tell me why shut up  so you haint heard the news i forgot it scared me almost to death. i thought everybody knowed it. i must hurry home.  and the bewildered youngster was on the point of dashing off again after partially recovering his wind when he seemed to awaken to the fact that he owed something in the way of enlightenment to his friend.  i forgot tom but i did think you knowed it guess youre the only boy in a thousand miles that haint heard of it. well you see the way of it was this there was the biggest crowd i ever seed at the circusdont believe any other circus in the country ever had so many people there. everything was going long all right when what did sam harper do but reach out with a stick and punch it in the eye of the tiger tippo sahib the minute he done it the tiger let out a yell that you would have heerd a mile off and afore sam could get out of the way the tiger smashed right out of the cage and was among the people chawing them up. he had his well eye on sam and crushed his head like an eggshell with one bite then he made a sweep with his paw and knocked jack habersham clean out the tent. he must have gone a hundred feet through the air for he come down on top of the steeple and is there yet with the spire sticking up through him. then he hit bill dunham such a clip that he sailed out through the same hole in the tent that jack passed through. when i left bill hadnt been seed by anybody. guess he hasnt come down yet.  then the tiger come for me  i seen him make a spring and ducked my head. he went clean over and landed among the women and children and begun chawing em up. why tom the sound of their bones cracking and snapping in his jaws was like the firecrackers going off on the fourth of july. them as warnt swallered or killed scattered right and left and begun climbing trees jumping through winders and fastening the doors. all this time the tiger kept on chawing. he never took more than one bite at a man  did you see him kill any one asked the scared tom somewhat confused by the tremendous narrative of his friend.  did i see him kill any one i should say i did. i seed him kill more than forty  did he eat em all  of course he did that is all but their boots and shoes. he dont seem to like leather added jim thoughtfully for i noticed that when the men were going down his throat he kind of shet his jaws so as to slip off their boots.  jim he must be a big tiger to hold so many folks inside of him.  course he is the biggest that was ever catched in greenland he didnt not only swaller the men and boys and women that im telling you bout but he took in horses cows dogs and anything in his way. if i aint mistook he swallered mr. macdowells two horses with him.  no he didnt for they went by a few minutes ago. but jim what makes you in such a hurry  im trying to get away from tippo sahib replied the frightened lad glancing furtively again toward the village.  wheres the tiger now  he aint fur off and added jim speaking the truth this time the tigers coming this way and will soon be here.     chapter ii.    it was tom gordons turn now to be frightened.  what he exclaimed almost leaping from his feet the tiger coming this way how do you know that  i seed him aint that enough he started right up the road on a gallop with the blood dripping from his jaws  but where is he now  he went a little way stopping now and then to swaller some one that warnt quick nough to git out of his path he went over the hill this side of briggsville where you know we couldnt see him. by that time a whole lot of the folks had guns and started after him. being on my way home i jined em. when we got to the top of the hill old tippo sahib couldnt be seen anywhere.  arent you afeard to go home  no of course not replied jimmy rapidly regaining courage i know how to fix him if he comes after me.  hows that  all ive got to do is to stop short and look him right in the eye. a chap mustnt tremble but look hard and stern.  why didnt you do that jim when he first broke out of his cage  i hadnt time ill do it if i meet him agin. remember tom if you run against him you must fix your eyes on him and not wink. thatll fetch him every time.  but sposin it doesnt  if you should have to wink and he comes for you why all youve got to do is to haul off with your foot and kick him awful hard under the jaw thatll fix him but you mustnt be barefooted or youll hurt your toes. and you must kick hard nough too added the budding naturalist to knock his jaw off. then of course he cant bite.  the scheme was a brilliant one perhaps but young as was tom gordon he felt that the difficulty lay in its application.  gracious jim the tiger is stirring up things isnt he weve got a gun in the house and if he visits us i think ill try that.  do you know where to hit him asked jim who having fully recovered his wind seemed at the same time to have regained a vast amount of curious knowledge of natural history.  i spose in the head is as good as any place.  dont you think of such a thing he dont mind being hit in the head more than you do getting hit by a spitball. you must aim for his tail  how can that hurt him asked the amazed tom.  why i seed the balls that hit his head glance off and scoot up in the air like skipping stones over the water. a tiger uses his tail to balance himself with. shoot off his tail and he loses his balance. every time he tries to walk he tips over. dont forget tom if you shoot to aim at his tail just where it is stuck onto his body. if you miss look him in the eye and if that doesnt stop him let drive with your foot under the jaw and dont forget to have your shoes on. well i must go home to tell the folks to git ready added jim loping off like an indian starting on a long journey.  tom had caught the contagion of excitement and the moment his friend left he made a dash for the door of his home bursting in upon his mother and aunt with the astounding news just received from his playmate.  strange women would they have been not to have been wrought up by the alarming tidings. brushing aside the chaff there remained the wheat in jims words to the effect that the tiger one of the finest of his kind ever seen in captivity had broken out of his cage injured if not killed a number of people and was in the immediate neighborhood with the prospect of paying a visit to this home.  the gun is loaded said the mother turning slightly pale but i dont think one of those animals will attempt to enter a house.  i have read that in india remarked her sisterinlaw they follow the natives into their houses and tear down the structures in their fury.  but their dwellings are made of light bamboo and are frail structures.  we may as well be on the right side remarked the other stepping hastily to the door. but just before reaching it the latch flew up and jim travers plunged in falling on his hands and knees the picture of terror itself.  shut the door quick he gasped. the tiger is coming hes coming hes right behind me.  in a twinkling aunt cynthia sprang forward caught the latch and slid the heavy bar in place while the mother hastened to the window.  look out called jim clambering to his feet hell spring right through and chaw you up quickern lightning.  but the brave parent not only threw up the window and bolted the shutters but did it coolly and deftly with each window front and back thus shrouding the room in obscurity.  tom climbed into a chair set in front of the fireplace and took down the loaded rifle which he knew how to use as well as any boy of his years.  come jim lets go upstairs to my bedroom maybe we can get a shot at him.  at the top of the stairs the leader paused and turned about.  say jim did you try to look in the tigers eye he asked.  dont bother me with such foolish questions i hadnt a chance.  how was it  why i hadnt got far from the house when i heered a growl and there was the tiger in the field looking over the fence at me.  seems to me that was just the chance you wanted if he was looking at you.  i spose it was but to own up tom i didnt think of it. i was afeard he would go for your folks. so i thought i would walk down and tell you.  did you walk all the way  i may have hurried a littlethat is a part of the way. i would have turned round and let him have my foot under the jaw but i was afeard my shoe would give out.  meanwhile the two boys walked softly to the front window of toms bedroom and cautiously peered out.  sh i blieve i see him whispered the young host.  where asked his companion in the same guarded manner.  under the oak hes standing still just now. there hes creeping off toward the woodshed.  yes thats him thats him i know it. hadnt you better let me take a shot  i can shoot as well as you.  tom was right. he was looking upon the royal bengal tiger and no mistake. he had halted under a large oak standing on the other side of the road and seemed to be debating with himself what he should do next.  the rattle of a coming wagon attracted his attention and he crouched down as if preparing to spring upon the driver and his animals.  just watch him chaw up the horses and the man whispered jim.  if he means to do that id better shoot said tom setting down his gun and silently raising the window.  you cant do it now for hes almost behind the tree.  his head shows and i guess thats better than his tail.  tom rested the heavy barrel of the rifle on the windowsill and knelt down to make his aim sure. before however he could obtain a good sight the old farmer came so nearly opposite that he was obliged to restrain his fire through fear of hitting him or his horses.  the boys held their breath certain of the awful occurrence at hand. but the tiger just then seemed to be in a magnanimous mood. possibly he was satiated with what he had already devoured in the way of horses men women and children. be that as it may the farmer and his team never suspected their peril if in point of fact any peril threatened them. the animals jogged along with the man half asleep on the front seat his idle whip sloping over his shoulder. the king of the jungle made not the least demonstration against them.  that must be cause he isnt hungry remarked jim.  then i should think he would go away and leave us.  dont you understand were tender and juicier than that old man.  jingo if thats what hes after im going to shoot.  tom again sighted along the barrel but at the moment his finger began pressing the trigger the beast rose to his feet and looked directly at the house as if trying to decide the best avenue of enteringthe door the windows or possibly the chimney.  he formed a striking picture this fearful king of the jungle whose terrific strength as scientific tests have proven is onefifth greater than that of the african lion. his massive head was erect his eyes shone and his sinewy graceful body covered with its soft velvety and spotted fur was like the beauty of some deadly serpent. his long tail slightly swayed from side to side and although the boys could not hear it they were sure he was growling in his anger.  once his bloodred tongue was projected for an instant from his mouth and licked his jaws as the cat species are fond of doing and occasionally he moved his head from side to side.  he means to chaw us all up said jim. why dont you fire  at that instant tom gordon pressed the trigger.     chapter iii.    the shot however was a poor one.  the bullet struck the tiger wounding him slightly but not enough to disable him. naturally it added to the fury of the beast and really increased the peril of the people within the humble home against whom the brute seemed to have formed a strong and curious antipathy.  he wheeled about leaped the fence behind him galloped a number of paces and then paused abruptly with his head up and stared at the building as if trying to learn the point whence the shot came that he might punish the offenders.  gracious exclaimed jim travers hes going to jump up here and eat us up lets run.  wherell we run was the sensible question of tom. id load up again but the powder and bullets are downstairs and before i could do it hed be on us if he means to jump into this window.  the halt of the tiger was only momentary. he trotted round to the rear of the house vanishing from sight for the moment.  a brilliant idea struck jim travers.  i can do better than that tom he called out clattering downstairs. come with me and ill show you.  are you going to try to look him in the eye asked tom following after him and scarcely less excited than he. it wont work.  but the other lad paid no attention to the inquiry so flurried was he over his new scheme for frightening off the dreaded beast.  the closing of the shutters on the lower floor as we have explained cast it in deep shadow. the mother had been so thorough in her work that all the three rooms were thus obscured. aunt cynthia had lit a lamp which sat on the table and served to light up the interior.  what do you mean to do she asked of the boys as they rushed into her presence.  im going to load the gun replied tom. i dont know what jim is driving at.  the women were naturally alarmed at the persistency of the wild animal in his demonstration against the dwelling. it did look as if he was bent on revenging himself for the hurt that had been inflicted. many of the wild beasts of india like the frightful cobra often show great tenacity in attacking those from whom they have received injury.  if the tiger will go away you had better leave him alone said aunt cynthia. your shot doesnt seem to have hurt him at all.  yes it did insisted tom. i hit him for he jumped.  but you only made him more angry i am afraid we are not through with him yet.  the rifle was of the oldfashioned muzzleloading kind and aunt cynthia gave what help she could to her nephew as he began reloading it. from the powder flask she poured a charge down the barrel upon which tom pressed the conical bullet wrapped about with a small bit of greased muslin. then he had only to place a percussioncap on the tube and he was ready for business.  but before this stage of the proceedings was reached something startling happened.  jim travers paid no heed to what his young friend was doing. stooping over the burning wood in the fireplace the flame of which was quite feeble because the day was mild he began fanning it with his hat. he was thus employed and tom was in the act of capping the rifle when a crash against the nearest shutter made the building tremble.  the startled inmates stared trembling in each others faces.  its the tiger whispered mrs. gordon uttering a truth that was manifest to every one.  he is determined to get at us added aunt cynthia. what shall we do  ill fetch him this time was the confident response of tom if i can only get a fair aim.  you had better let me have the gun said his mother who was in a momentary panic.  let me try it once more.  but there is no chance here it will not do to open the shutter he will spring right in among us.  upstairs is the best place said tom hurrying up the steps again.  meanwhile jim travers who had been so terrified displayed more coolness than any one in the house. probably he felt so much confidence in his new scheme that he was warranted in this selfpossession.  like the rest he was startled by the crash against the shutter. he rose to his feet stared at the window and seeing that the beast had not broken through stooped and resumed fanning the blaze with more vigor than ever. at this juncture tom called from above  where is he i cant see him.  he had peered from the front and rear windows without catching sight of the tiger. the reason was evident the animal was so near the house that he could not be observed without raising the sash and thrusting out the head. it was well the lad was too prudent to do that.  afraid that their voices might rouse his anger the mother stepped to the foot of the stairs and called to her boy  keep quiet tom he is somewhere near but we cant see him any more than you. if we remain still perhaps he will go away.  jim travers having fanned the pieces of wood on the hearth into a crackling blaze stepped softly to the window against which the tiger had flung himself and bent his head in close attention.  mercy exclaimed aunt cynthia in an undertone come away if he jumps through he will land on top of your head.  sh whispered the boy holding up one hand as a warning for them to keep silent i hear him  so he did. the tiger was trotting back and forth and round the building evidently seeking some mode of entrance. clearly he was resolved to punish the inmates for firing at him.  all stood still and listened. in the profound stillness the women caught the faint sound made by the velvety feet of the brute in trotting to and fro. he was traced as he made a complete circuit of the house and then paused at the window where he had attempted to leap through.  the low threatening growl which escaped him sent a shiver through all. neither of the women dared to stir or speak. they expected every moment that his effort would be repeated with success.  and now to the dismay of the two jim travers did an extraordinary thingone that almost took away their breath.  running to the fireplace he caught up the largest brand with which he hurried to the window and raised the sash with one hand.  what are you doing demanded aunt cynthia in consternation.  never mind me replied the youth im all right.  and then they literally became speechless when they saw him slide back the bolt which held the shutter in place. it looked as if he meant to open the way for the tiger to enter the house.  while thus busy jim thought proper to add a word of explanation  theres nothing that wild beasts is so afeard of as fire thats what im going to play on this chap.  the women were too frightened to protest.  after sliding back the fastenings jim stood leaning slightly forward the torch in one hand while the other rested against the shutter which was not yet pushed open.  he was listening and awaiting the opportune moment.  he plainly heard the tip tip of those feet amid which a cavernous growl now and then mingled but he hesitated for the tiger appeared to be too far off to spring his scheme upon him.  jims coolness was marvelous. none was more terrified than he when the beast broke out of the cage and he was among the most panicstricken that dashed from the tent and fled homeward.  but here he was like a veteran sportsman of the jungle awaiting the critical moment with what looked like nerves of steel. he listened with all the acuteness of which he was master and his keen ears did not deceive him.  suddenly he flung both shutters wide open and let in the flood of sunshine which rendered useless the lamp on the table.  there was the tiger no more than a dozen feet distant. the slight noise caused him to stop abruptly and turn his head while walking away.  the sight of the lad seemed to whet his fury. he lashed his tail growled and swinging himself lightly round cautiously approached the daring youngster as if not quite satisfied with the look of things.  jim leaned farther through the window and swung his torch round and round extending it at the same time toward the beast which paused a few steps off as if to gather himself for the spring.  the lad felt the need of vigor. he whirled the torch harder and reached farther shouting  get out or ill burn your head off come any nearer if you dare  at this moment jim in his enthusiasm leaned a trifle too far. his feet slipped over the floor and he sprawled headfirst out of the window.     chapter iv.    jim travers felt that he was lost. the women uttered cries of anguish clasped their hands and almost fainted.  sometimes however a person instinctively does the best thing possible when if he took time for thought he would do the worst.  the antipathy of wild beasts to fire is well known but it must be remembered that the full degree of this terror is felt only during the darkness of night. the sun was in the horizon when the stirring events we have set out to narrate were going on.  when jim came tumbling through the window he held fast to the blazing torch even while trying to save himself from falling. his dexterity enabled him to keep fair command of his limbs and he bounded to his feet in a twinkling at the moment when he expected tippo sahib to come down upon him like a clawing avalanche.  then instead of turning about and clambering back through the window the surest means of inviting the attack of the beast he uttered a shout and holding the torch in front ran straight at the tiger  it may be doubted whether the fiercest of wild creatures would have withstood such an assault. even though the sun was shining the tiger knew something of the meaning of that glowing brand. wheeling about like a cat he trotted off turning his head from side to side and frequently glancing at his pursuer.  his flight brought him into the field of vision of tom gordon upstairs who had been mystified to understand what was going on below.  ill finish him this time was his conclusion as he flung up the window thrust the barrel of the weapon through and dropped on one knee.  but it seemed as if fate held that particular royal bengal tiger in its special keeping that day. before tom could make his aim certain jim travers popped in front so in line with the beast that the young marksman could not fire at one without risk of hitting the other.  i daresent do it he decided leaning his gun against the wall beside him im afeard of hitting jim.  although the latter had displayed an extraordinary degree of coolness at a critical point in the events it must not be supposed that he possessed any unusual share of courage. it was his implicit faith in the blazing torch that inspired him to a daring that few men would have shown but on the outside he lost his head.  he was hardly conscious of what he was doing when he sat off after the fleeing animal and theres no saying what the end would have been or rather theres no doubt that he would have feared ill had not tom called to him  come back jim your torch will soon go out and then hell have you sure  golly thats so muttered jim stopping like a flash and dashing for the house again i didnt think of that  good mrs. gordon and aunt cynthia had recovered in a degree their senses. unspeakably shocked by the peril of the youth whose courage they estimated too highly they shrank from no risk that could aid his final escape. they had not closed the shutter after his mishap and when they saw him wheel and run back they stood by the window ready to receive him.  jim travers was a good runner and when it is stated that he was certain tippo sahib was skurrying at his heels it need not be added that he surpassed himself in the way of fleetness. finding after running a short way that the beast was not after him jim flung aside the torch and went through the window like a cannon shot rolling over and striking the other side of the room before his flight was checked. a lad of his years however rarely suffers from hard knocks and bumps and he was on his feet the next moment.  shet the window quick he called or hell be in here.  no need of the appeal for the mother with deft fingers quickly secured the shutter as before and but for the lamp all would have been in darkness again.  jim darted upstairs to learn how his playmate was making out.  why dont you shoot tom he called hurrying to his side.  cause i dont see anything to shoot at was the answer.  whats become of the tiger  i guess you scared him off.  jim peeped cautiously out of the window.  thats so he isnt anywhere round but he was out there a few minutes ago.  so was you but you arent there now.  i thought he chased me clean up to the winder.  he didnt foller you a single step when you struck out for the window he stopped short and laughed ready to die to see you run.  the tiger laughed at me exclaimed jim angrily who ever heard of such a thing  well he looked as though he wanted to laugh and then trotted down the road i seen him jump over the fence and make for the woods.  thats where hes gone i guess ill go home now while i have the chance.  better wait jim till youre sure he isnt round.  jim followed this sensible advice staying to supper to which he was always welcome.  the women had received so great a shock that they could not recover from it as quickly as the volatile youngsters. the shutters and doors were kept fastened and every few minutes they peeped out in quest of the tiger that showed so much enmity toward them. when darkness closed in however not the first glimpse had been caught of him and all began to hope he had taken his final departure. mrs. gordon gave her consent that jimmy travers should start homeward and promising to keep a sharp lookout for the creature he departed. it may as well be added that he saw nothing more of tippo sahib nor did the animal pay any visit to his home.  helloa the house there  this was the startling summons that rang out in the stillness of the night about two hours after the departure of jimmy travers. mrs. gordon stepped to the door and with some misgiving drew it open. the full moon was shining brightly and she saw two horsemen who had halted in the highway opposite the gate.  goodevening said the spokesman lifting his hat in salutation when he observed the woman have you seen anything of a strange animal in this neighborhood madam we have traced him almost to this spot but have lost track of him.  do you refer to the tiger that escaped from the menagerie this afternoon  thats the animal were looking for.  yes he was here late in the afternoon and tried to jump through the window.  did he hurt any one asked the man in alarm.  no we did not receive a scratch. my son shot him.  what exclaimed the other did he kill the animal  oh no answered mrs. gordon who was joined by aunt cynthia and tom smiling at the fear of the visitors my boy is quite young and isnt much of a marksman he thinks he hit the beast  and i did too interjected the lad not pleased with this slur upon his skill with the gun.  possibly he did but he was not injured much.  i am glad to learn that. the tiger is one of the most valuable animals we have in the menagerie i should be very sorry to lose him.  but interposed aunt cynthia it may become necessary to shoot him in selfdefense.  not likely he is not apt to injure any one if he is let alone.  tom had not forgotten the appalling stories told by jim travers on his arrival from the exhibition.  i heered he chawed up sam harper jack habersham bill dunham and a whole lot of folks that was at the circus.  the laughter of the two horsemen was hearty.  those youngsters are alive and well. the boy who punched the tiger in the eye and caused all this rumpus was knocked down and scratched somewhat but not half as much as he deserved. no one else so far as we can learn has been injured though as i remarked just now tippo sahib will fight if he is driven into a corner.  he tried to jump through our window said aunt cynthia.  before or after you fired at him  afterward.  i suppose it was caused by the hullabaloo of the people frightened out of their wits. it is the same as when a hue and cry is raised about a dog. if he isnt mad he will soon become so. but madam we are very anxious to secure the animal before he is killed or seriously injured. we will pay a good reward for his recapture.  how much asked tom to the surprise of his relatives.  one hundred dollars to any one who will secure him without injury or fixes it so we can recapture him. may i ask where the tiger seemed to be going when you last saw him  the last we seen of him replied tom he was cutting cross the field toward the woods over yonder.  thanking the boy and the ladies for their information the horsemen rode off soon disappearing up the highway.  the fact that these men experienced in their knowledge of wild animals were searching for the escaped tiger naturally lifted much of the fear of the beast from the hearts of the gordon family. they believed the keepers would recapture him before he could do much harm in the community. they were convinced too that they were not the only ones looking for him.  the shutters of all the windows were never more carefully barred than before the three inmates retired to their beds.  tom gordon being a rugged healthy boy generally passed the night in refreshing slumber. not a trace of the ague which kept him from the circus showed itself in his system when he went upstairs to his room but somehow or other after he lay down he could not sleep.  no doubt the excitement through which he had gone so wrought upon his nerves as to drive away all drowsiness but the thought that was running through his brain found expression in the words  a hundred dollars what a fortune that is it would make us comfortable for life. i wonder if there is any way of catching tippo sahib before the men find him.  i dont believe theres anything in what jim said about looking the creature in the eye. spose i should meet him in the woods and fix him that way what good would it do id have to stand there till the keepers come along and they might not do that for a week or two. by that time id be starved to death and so would the tiger and they want him alive.  jim must be mistaken too bout shooting off his tail. jim and me havent got any tails and we dont have any trouble in walking. i cant see how it would make any difference with the tiger either. i wonder where jim got all them ideasi guess where he got the stories bout so many people being chawed up.  the lad lay for a while on one side and then flung himself on the other. several times he was on the point of dropping into an uneasy slumber but some slight noise always came at the critical moment to make him wider awake than he was in the first instance.  what is more disturbing than the occasional rattle of a window sash when we are trying to woo sleep by and by tom discovered it was that which had played the mischief with his rest. he sprang impatiently out of bed and hurried to the window with the intention of righting matters.  the bright moon shining from an unclouded sky made it almost as light as day. he stood a minute looking out upon the beautiful scene for young as he was he could not fail to be impressed by the striking loveliness of everything outdoors.  i wonder whether theyve catched tippo sahib  the lad caught his breath for just then he saw something moving in the shadow of the woodshed. a second look showed it to be some sort of quadruped and the thirdcould he believe his eyesrevealed the tiger himself  yes it was the terrible brute and no mistake. the boy rubbed his eyes and looked again. some unaccountable attraction seemed to have brought tippo sahib back to the dwelling where he had met with so interesting an experience that afternoon.  but all this being so tom gordon might well ask himself what good the presence of the animal promised to be to him. hitherto he and his friends had counted themselves lucky in being able to keep out of his way when he showed a desire to explore the interior of the house. how then could he expect to get the hundred dollars offered for the capture of the brute  mingled with the eager wish of the lad to earn the munificent sum was a slight misgiving as to the meaning of this return of the tiger. having eluded the men sent after him had he come back to revenge himself upon those who had treated him so ill  this discomforting thought was dissipated by the action of tippo sahib. he did not move around as on his former visit but seemed to be prowling about the woodshed as if in quest of something. surely he would not act thus if he meditated an attack upon the inmates of the home  but tom had learned from his aunt and mother that if the tiger chose he could readily leap from the ground to the windows of the upper story and therefore would have little difficulty in entering if he was bent on doing so.  ill get my gun so as to be ready to shoot him. but if i shoot him i wont get the reward that was promised but its better to kill him than to have him chaw us to pieces.  just then the animal worked his way round the corner of the structure out of the shadow into the bright moonlight. he showed no interest in the house itself but confined his attention to the woodsheda fact which lessened the lads fear and held him at the window closely watching the beast.  his change of location brought him to the front of the strong wooden building and near the partially open door.  the heart of the lad gave a great bound.  spose he goes inside and i slip up and shut him in  all the indications pointed to the tiger entering the structure though it was impossible to imagine his purpose unless he scented the waste food kept there in a barrel for the pigs belonging to the widow gordon.  the attempt the lad had in mind involved a fearful risk for there could be no doubt that if the beast detected him he would make him serve for supper.  probably if tom had been given a few more minutes to think over the matter he would have abandoned the design in his mind but that one hundred dollars looked as big to him as a million does to most people. hastily drawing on his trousers he began stealthily descending the stairs. fortunately for him his aunt and mother were asleep else they would have put an emphatic veto on his foolhardy scheme. the bolts of the door were softly slid back the door itself silently drawn inward an inch or two and the lad peeped out. his position gave a full view of the front of the woodshed and the sight was an interesting one. the tiger had partially entered. indeed little was seen more than his tail which projecting from the darkness of the structure swayed slowly from side to side as if he had detected something not altogether pleasing.  if he goes in ill slip out and hook the door but if he comes back it wont do to let him see me.  this was the thought that stirred tom gordon as he peered stealthily out of the crack made by the door. could he have thought of any way by which to drive the tiger inside he would have done so but there was none. he could only wait and watch and hope for a favorable issue of the undertaking.  it struck him as strange that the beast should stand so long with only his tail in the outer air. the lad fancied it had disappeared entirely but at the moment he was about to slip forward he detected the tuft agitating the chips and dirt about the entrance. he therefore held back and still watched and waited.  there the brute must have taken another step farther for no part of his appendage was visible. he was wholly within the shed.  it was now or never.  tom left the door open a few inches so that if he should find it necessary to retreat he would meet with no trouble in reentering his home. in that event however it wasnt likely tippo sahib would meet with any trouble in following him.  the heart of the youth throbbed violently when he stepped out in the moonlight and comprehended the perilous nature of the business.  if he comes out tail first was his thought ill have a chance to dodge him but if he comes head first ill be a goner.  he was not idle while these imaginings were passing through his mind. step by step and on tiptoe he stole forward until he stood within a couple of paces of the fastening. then it was that his courage almost deserted him and the desire to turn about and make a dash for the door behind him was wellnigh irresistible.  but the thought of that magnificent hundred dollars restrained and nerved him to push on. another step and he had but to lean forward with outstretched arm seize the door and snap it toward him. he was in the act of doing so when he heard a guttural growl from within. had this reached his ears when he was a few feet farther off tom would have turned and fled for life. he would have done so now but for his belief that it was too late. he could only save himself by shutting that door before the beast came through it.  holding his breath the lad seized the handle and with a quick flirt drew the door toward him. the strong iron hook was slipped into the staple and he had done all he could. yielding then to the panic which had been struggling so long within him he bounded upon the front porch shot through the door and closed and fastened it in a twinkling. not even then did tom feel safe but bounded upstairs with so much haste and noise that the wonder was he did not awaken his aunt and mother. they slept too soundly however to be disturbed.  he ran to the window of his bedroom and looked out again fearing that the royal prisoner had already freed himself and would proceed to punish the one that had taken such liberties with him. strange to say everything looked as if there was no tiger within a score of miles. the door of the woodshed was fastened as it had been many times but no noise or disturbance so far as the lad could judge sounded from within the structure. the prisoner seemed to have accepted his misfortune philosophically and perhaps had lain down to rest himself after his stirring experiences of the afternoon.  i wonder if he can get out of there. its pretty strong and there isnt any backdoor or window that he can use.  the youth was so deeply interested in the question that he brought his chair beside the window and sat down to await results. it was not strange perhaps considering the lateness of the hour that the sleep which he had long sought in vain now came to him. by and by his head began nodding and despite the cramped position he slumbered soundly until awakened by the call of his mother.  as soon as tom could collect his senses he looked at the woodshed. so far as he saw no change had taken place. then he hurried downstairs and told the astounding tidings.  mercy gasped aunt cynthia i was just about going to the shed for some wood you were so long coming down. suppose i had  it would have been all over with you replied tom hardly less startled than they i meant to stay awake all night but forgot myself.  perhaps he has got out suggested the mother i dont understand why he has kept so quiet.  while they were talking a call came from the roadway again. when they looked out four horsemen were seen.  we find it impossible to locate that beast explained the one that had done the talking the night before i hardly suppose you have seen anything more of him.  before mrs. gordon or aunt cynthia could reply tom asked  did you say you would give a hundred dollars to any one that gets that tiger without hurting him  well be glad to do that sonny or if he will show us where he is so we can capture him.  will you give a hundred dollars to have him in the woodshed there  indeed we will.  very well hes there     chapter v.    the men looked at tom gordon as if doubting his words.  are you in earnest asked one of them.  look for yourselves.  the horseman was out of the saddle in a twinkling and walked quickly to the woodshed whose cracks were so numerous that it was easy to see every part of the interior. placing his eyes at one of these openings he peered through.  by george boys he exclaimed turning about the youngsters right tippo is in there.  the others hastily dismounted tied their horses and joined him. all took a look before they were satisfied no mistake had been made.  the tiger was stretched out in one corner and had been asleep when he was awakened by the noise. he raised his head opened his eyes and growled but showed no special anger at being disturbed.  while the men were debating as to the best means of securing him jack durrick who had done most of the talking explained to the ladies and tom what must have puzzled them concerning the action of the beast.  durrick it should be stated figured on the stupendous posters as professor de la cordova successor of the renowned van amberg and fully his equal in his amazing power and control over the wild beasts of the forest and jungle. in this case it must be added the professor possessed fair claim to this distinction. he displayed great skill in the management of wild animals. no one could handle tippo sahib as did he. had he been near the cage when sam harper angered him he never would have permitted the beast to escape.  he said tippo was frightened and nervous through his suddenly acquired freedom. he suffered pain from the jab in his eye and was made more restless and fidgety by the excitement and his strange surroundings. the slight wound received by him renewed his anger but when he withdrew from the immediate vicinity he undoubtedly made a raid on some farmers livestock and had devoured a calf pig or sheep. he had eaten his fill and thereupon became so docile as to be comparatively harmless provided he was treated with consideration.  his return to the scene of his most stirring experience was one of those whims which his species sometimes show. tired from his flight and filled to satiety he had lain down to rest in the woodshed so satisfied with his quarters that he offered no objection when tom gordon slipped up and fastened the door. so powerful and active an animal had he chosen could have broken out of the place in a twinkling but he was content to stay where he was until fully rested.  i assure you added the professor you wouldnt have kept him much longer when he awoke hungry and thirsty he would have placed himself on the outside before you could say jack robinson and then there would have been trouble.  the actions of the professor proved his faith in his own words. he coolly unhooked the door gently pushed it back and stepped within the structure. tippo sahib uttered a growl and tom and his friends shrank farther away. the men however one of whom carried a coil of rope held their places.  professor de la cordova displayed admirable coolness and tact. he was not rough in manner but acted like one who felt himself master of the situation. his course indeed suggested to tom that there was much truth in jim traverss declaration about the power of the human eye over the denizens of the jungle. standing erect the man remained motionless for a full minute during which he kept his gaze fixed on the tiger staring into those orbs as if he would look him through.  tippo sahib was uneasy for a brief while and then succumbed to that mysterious hypnotic influence which in some cases is equally potent with persons. he became humble meek and if the term can be allowed penitent.  fully understanding his condition the professor reached his hand behind him without removing his gaze from the beast.  the rope he said in a low voice.  the next moment to the amazement of tom and his relatives he stepped gently forward and fastened the rope around the unresisting neck of tippo sahib who was led outside like a thoroughly subdued dog. tom gave him plenty of room and closely watched proceedings. while doing so he observed a slight scratch on the hip of the beast barely sufficient to break the skin that was the path of the bullet fired by the lad the day previous.  other ropes were fastened about the tiger who took it all as a matter of course and calmly followed when his guards moved in the direction of the horses. these resented the approach of the huge cat so the professor and one of his men walked some distance behind the others who took care of the animals.  before their departure professor de la cordova told tom to call at the hotel between six and seven that evening and he would be paid the hundred dollars with the thanks of mr. jones and all connected with the menagerie and circus.  i wonder if they mean to cheat me out of it said the boy that afternoon when he looked at the clock and saw it was nearly time to start.  i hardly think so replied his mother.  why didnt they give the money before they took the tiger away  probably they hadnt so much with them suggested aunt cynthia who plainly felt some misgiving over matters most likely the money has to be paid by some officer connected with the show.  and he may say he never gave his men the right to make such an offer remarked tom.  that may be said the mother thinking it wise to prepare her son for a probable disappointment the circus is to exhibit at boormans tonight. that is twenty miles off and all may have gone thither. if those men choose to disregard their word i see no help for it.  it will be awful mean in them declared the boy who had become quite nervous ill never catch any more tigers for them.  tom loitered on his way to briggsville striving not to reach there before the time named but despite the effort he was in town fully a quarter of an hour too early.  a surprise awaited him. the news of the recapture of the runaway tiger had preceded him and as was natural the story was exaggerated to an absurd degree. jim travers had told the wondering people that he saw tom capture sipo tahib as he called him by jumping on his back and bending his forepaws over his neck. peter parleys history which jim read at school contained a picture of the naturalist chatterton thus navigating an alligator and jim couldnt see why a tiger should not be handled the same way. he preferred however that some other boy should be the one to make the experiment.  so it was that tom found himself the hero of the hour. the boys and all his acquaintances gathered round him and he had to tell the story over and over until he became tired. when jim travers was reminded that toms modest account did not agree with his flamboyant yarn he said he feared he had got things a little mixed but that was the way he or tom would have conducted the recapture had the chance been given them.  are you the young man that caught the runaway tiger asked a pleasant looking gentleman somewhat loudly dressed as he laid his hand on the shoulder of tom gordon while he was standing among a group of his friends on the porch of the hotel.  i didnt exactly capture him replied the blushing lad but i shut the door of the woodhouse and he stayed there till the owners came and took him away.  its all the same you deserve as much credit as if you had brought him here without help. i believe they promised you a hundred dollars reward didnt they  yes sir one of the men said if i would call here between six and seven he would give me the money but i dont see anything of him added tom looking around in the hope of catching a glimpse of professor de la cordova. has he gone away  yes he is to appear in the show tonight at boormans and could not wait. but i am mr. jones the proprietor and if you will step inside with me it wont take us long to fix it. i was only waiting to make sure you were the right lad.  tom delightedly followed the gentleman into an inner room where the door was closed and the transaction quickly completed.  mr. jones made some sympathetic inquiries of the youth and when he learned of his mothers moderate circumstances expressed great pleasure that the reward had fallen to him. then he handed him ten bright crisp tendollar bills.  that is quite a sum of money for a lad like you to have about him added mr. jones. you must be careful not to lose it.  i am very thankful to you and shall take good care of it replied tom.  where are you going to carry it  in my inside coat pocket then i will button my coat over it.  thats right and dont unbutton the coat till you reach your own home.  the money was put away as tom indicated and thanking his kind friend again tom bade him goodby and withdrew.     chapter vi.    tom gordon could not be blamed for failing to note several suggestive occurrences during this memorable visit to briggsville.  seated on the porch of the hotel while he was talking to the group of young persons and acquaintances were two strangers whose dilapidated dress frowzy heads and surly faces showed they belonged to that pestiferous class of vagrants known as tramps. they sat apart after taking a drink in the barroom and with scowling but interested looks listened to the chatter going on around them. it did not take them long to catch the drift of matters. they talked together in low tones with furtive glances at the young hero and kept their places with a few muttered remarks that no one else could catch while tom was inside.  when the smiling lad reappeared his friends besieged him with inquiries.  did he give you the money tom how much is it  being a sturdy boy tom naturally did not wish to appear too much elated over his good fortune.  yes he replied with an assumption of indifference he paid me the hundred dollars like a gentleman and ive got it in my pocket.  what are you going to do with so much money asked a mischievous acquaintance buy a farm or go in partnership with vanderbilt  im going to give every cent of it to my mother replied tom with a compression of his fine lips and a flash of his eye.  thats right commented an elderly gentleman you couldnt put it into safer hands and i mean that for all of you youngsters.  it was at this juncture that the two tramps rose to their feet and slouched down the road in the direction of tom gordons home. in the flurry of the moment no one noticed their departure which indeed might not have attracted attention at any time.  youve got a loaded gun in your house was the inquiring remark of the same gentleman.  yes sir we always keep one. i fired at the tiger with it but i didnt hurt him much remarked tom with a laugh.  well tigers arent the only creatures youve got to look out for in these times. there are plenty of people that would break into your house and murder you and your mother and aunt for the sake of that money.  tom blanched a little at these words and one of the bystanders said  i dont think we have such people about here uncle jed.  i hope not but you cant be too careful ive been robbed myself when i hadnt any more thought of it than that boy there.  had tom gordon been a few years older or younger he would have acted differently that is to say he would have returned home without delay. but he did not wish to appear frightened by the words of the old gentleman and though he was eager to hurry home to his mother and aunt with the good news he remained talking with his friends and trying to act as though he had forgotten about his great fortune until the long summer day ended and twilight began closing in. then when he started he looked around to see whether any one was going in the same direction. he would have been glad of company but it so happened that he set out alone in the gathering gloom to walk the mile that must be passed before he could reach his home.  i wish uncle jed hadnt said what he did he mused when fairly beyond the town it makes me feel kind of pokerish why didnt i think to bring my gun along if the folks he talks about would rob our house they would stop me on the road and take the money from me.  he walked faster as the darkness increased for the moon would not rise for some time to come glanced often behind him and essayed a timid whistle. he soon ceased this however for it only increased his uneasiness. every minute or two he pressed one of his hands against his breast to make sure the precious package was there. then he glanced back again in the gloom and started when he fancied he saw a man following him. but it was only fancy and he increased his pace wondering why the mile seemed longer than he had ever known it before.  the rattle of a wagon caused him almost to leap from his feet.  thats lucky he exclaimed i will get the man to let me ride and then no one will dare disturb me.  but it proved that the wagon was coming from the direction of his home so it could not be turned to account. he watched it as it came nearer. an old gentleman sat on the front seat of the open vehicle which was jolting along at an easy rate. it was too dark to see the drivers features plainly but tom believed he knew him and called out a greeting. the response showed he was right as to the identity of the individual.  twothirds of the way home came the most trying ordeal. the lad was obliged to follow quite a stretch of road where there was woods on both sides. this deepened the gloom for the highway was so narrow that it was completely shadowed.  if any robbers are waiting for me he mused it will be in them woods.  he hesitated on the border of the shadows meditating whether he could not reach home by some other course but the forest originally one that covered several hundred acres was bisected by the highway and the detour would be long. still he decided to try it for somehow or other the conviction was strong with him that danger lurked among the shadows. he turned about to retrace his steps for a short way before leaving the road when he stopped short hardly repressing a gasp of affright.  he saw the unmistakable outlines of a man in the gloom only a short distance behind him. afraid to meet him face to face tom turned back and resumed his walk along the highway.  when i get along a little farther was his thought ill slip over the fence among the trees and dodge him.  he began walking fast continually glancing over his shoulder. his alarm increased upon discovering that the man had also quickened his footsteps so that instead of holding his place the pursuer as he may be considered was gaining.  the fact that not the slightest sound disturbed the stillness added to the oppression of the situation. the lad was on the point of breaking into a run when the man who was one of the tramps before referred to called out  hold on there sonny dont be in such a hurry.  this salutation was not calculated to soothe toms agitation and without any reply he started on a loping trot still keeping his attention to the rear and prepared to break into a dead run the moment it became necessary. he was fleet of foot and believed he could make the fellow hustle.  didnt you hear me sonny if you dont want to get shot stop  tom had no wish to be shot nor did he mean to have the company of the rascal who was bent on intruding upon him.  catch me if you can he muttered breaking into a swifter pace im glad its night so ill have a chance to hide from you  hold on there whats your hurry younker  the boy almost sank to the ground for this startling hail came not from the rear but from the front. stopping short he saw a burly fellow standing within ten feet of him in the middle of the road so nigh indeed that despite the darkness tom had no earthly chance of eluding him as he might have done had he detected his presence a moment sooner.  rallying with a supreme effort he addressed the one nearest him.  what do you want that you stop me this way  what do i want repeated the tramp with a chuckle thats good why i want to make the acquaintance of a purty young man like you. whats your name  tom gordon promptly replied the boy seeing nothing to be gained by hiding his identity.  im count de buffer travelling incog. just now cause you see i dont want the americans to make so much fuss over me i have enough of that at home where theyre not such tuft hunters as here. glad to know you tom added the tramp extending his hand.  the boy with some hesitation accepted the grimy palm which almost crushed his own.  this is my friend duke de sassy said the count as the other came up him and me have got tired of the frivolities of court life and are making a tower through america studying its institutions and doing the country.  this ere young man didnt seem to care for my company remarked the last arrival for i called to him two or three times but then he couldnt have knowed that it was a real live dook he was treating that way so i forgive him.  the truth is added the count were down on our luck just now and would like you to accommodate us with a trifle of a loan.  the tramps placed themselves while talking so as to forestall any attempt on the part of the lad to break away.  i havent any money to lend you sturdily answered tom.  do you mean to say you have no funds in your exchequer continued the count cause if you havent of course we dont want anything to do with you.  it flashed upon tom that he had only to speak an untruth to free himself of the presence of these miscreants. would it be a sin for him to say he had no money with him  only for an instant did the temptation linger. his mother had taught him that a lie was never justifiable under any circumstances.  i did not say i had no money he said but that i had none to lend you.  ah thats a different matter. im afeard duke he continued addressing his companion that we shall be under the necessity of making a forced loan how does the proposition strike you  im convinced we shall be reduced to that painful necessity. if im not mistook this young gentleman was paid a hundred dollars this afternoon for his bravery in throwing a royal bengal tiger over his shoulder and bringing him back to the circus from which erstwhile the animal strayed.  poor tom saw it was all up with him. these wretches must have known about the reward from the moment he received it. they had planned the robbery and he had walked straight into the trap set for him.  yes i have a hundred dollars given to me for helping to catch the tiger i was taking it home to my mother.  thats a good boy commented the count always think of your mother for the market isnt overstocked with firstclass mothers. but bear in mind sonny that were only borering this for sixty days and well give you ten per cent interestthats our style of doing busness eh duke  well if i must i must said tom hopelessly making a move of his hand as if to draw the money from his trousers pocket.  thats right allers take things philosophically and be ready to extend a helping hand to them as  the count had got thus far in his observations when the boy darted to one side and made a desperate attempt to pass them and reach the fence on his right.  he came very nigh succeeding too. in fact he did get to the fence and was in the act of clambering over when he was seized in the iron grip of count de buffer who was angered at the narrow escape of the youth making off with the funds.  if you try anything like that agin ill kill you he said choking and shaking the boy we mean busness young man and dont you forget it  tom still struggled furiously and pulled so hard that all three moved several paces along the highway. nor did he cease his resistance until he had been struck several cruel blows.  now fork over them funds commanded the count when the panting lad was exhausted.  i shant do it was the sturdy reply.  very well then well do it for you.  the lad made no resistance and the tramps searched him thoroughly from head to foot. not a penny was found on him.  we ought to break your head for that trick said the duke and if it had done you any good wed do so but we understand it. you flung the money away when you made a rush for the fence.  if i did was the defiant response of the boy all youve got to do is to find it again.  well soon do that hold him fast till i get it and then well settle with him.  the tousled scamp shuffled off to the side of the highway to search for the package which he was convinced had been thrown there at the time their prisoner made his dash for freedom.  thatll prove bad busness for you growled the duke who was the custodian of tom.  not any worse than if you had got it replied the youth who was thoroughly roused by his brutal treatment. he had been struck several times but could not believe the ruffians would dare put him to death in revenge for the loss of the money that is provided they did recover it.  havent you found it dick called the duke forgetting the title of his comrade.  no confound it i dont know where to look for it.  where did you fling it demanded the duke of his captive.  i shall not tell you you may kill me first.  very well take that  but tom managed to dodge the blow and by a quick leap freed himself of the grip of his captor. the next minute he was off like a deer.  possibly the tramp might have overtaken him had he made the effort but he chose to let him go while he joined his friend in hunting for the money.  they kept up the search for hours and were then obliged to give it up. afraid that the boy who must have reached home long before would bring friends back the tramps took their departure while the opportunity was theirs and were seen no more.  tom gordon did a brave thing. the moment he discovered he was not pursued he hid himself at the side of the road and waited till the scamps departed. then when the moon had risen he stole back again and remembering quite well where he had thrown the package of money found it with little difficulty and reaching home without further incident told his stirring experience to his mother and aunt.     chapter vii.    it will be admitted that tom gordon and jim travers had met with a pretty stirring experience as a result of the visit of the circus and menagerie to briggsville. tom had not been able to attend the performance but it may be said he was favored with a little circus of his own in which he played the part of star performer. but alls well that ends well and he had the pleasure of walking into his humble home and turning over to his mother the handsome reward paid for the restoration of tippo sahib comparatively unharmed to the owner. he was so well liked by teacher and playmates that all congratulated him. there was no jealousy of his good fortune for there was none more deserving and it may be added no more in need of the material help given by that one hundred dollars.  but what has been told was but an incident in the life of the two boys whose fortunes i have set out to tell. a remarkable train of circumstances in due course involved the lads in a series of incidents which had an important bearing on their future lives and taught a lesson which young lads cannot learn too often in this world.  tom and jim devoted themselves more closely than ever to their school studies and as a result became two of the bestinformed pupils at that crude institution of learning. they grew to be strong sturdy youths as fond of athletic sports as they were of study and with a promise of the right sort of success in life. neither dreamed of what the immediate future had in store for them.  a year after the incident of the tiger toms aunt cynthia peacefully died and a few month later to his almost inconsolable grief his beloved mother passed away. thus he was left an orphan without brother or sister. the blow was a crushing one and for weeks he wished to die and join the dear ones that had gone before. he grieved until his friends feared he was falling into a decline and became seriously concerned for him.  it has been truly said however that no person in the enjoyment of health and vigor of body can long be crushed by affliction. he will rally sooner or later. thus it proved in the case of tom gordon. his former strength and spirits gradually came back to him. there were moments and hours when he was weighed down by his great loss but it was gradually softened by the passage of time until the day came when his friends believed he had fully recovered from the sorrow that had nearly driven the life from his body and soul.  one sad feature of his affliction was that he was left almost penniless. with all the thrift frugality and selfdenial of mother and aunt they had been able to leave the youth hardly anything at all when they died. the humble home with all its belongings was sold for less than the mortgage and tom found himself with little besides the clothes he wore and a few precious mementoes of those that had passed away.  in a community where he was so favorably known it was impossible that he should suffer actual want. more than one home was offered him not only until he could find some situation or engage in some trade but as long as he chose to avail himself of it.  tom was forced to accept some one of these offers and he went home with jim travers until he could decide what to do. he knew he was welcome there and could stay as long as he wished though he had no thought of becoming a burden upon the kind friends that had opened their doors to him.  now it was this change in the surroundings in the daily life of tom gordon that led to the singular incidents i have set out to tell.  jim travers lived alone with his father who was in fair circumstances. his mother had died in his infancy and his only sister maggie was his playmate for a few years longer when she departed to join the loved one that had preceded her. the husband and father became a lonely and bowed man whose years were far less than they seemed. although a farmer in a small way he committed the sad error of engaging in stock speculations more with a view of diverting his mind from his gnawing grief than with the hope of bettering his fortune. it is hardly necessary to relate what followed. he was successful for a time and improved his financial standing. he gladly welcomed tom gordon beneath his roof for he knew his own boy could not have a playmate whose company would be more improving to him. then mr. travers dipped more deeply into speculation. with brighter prospects than ever there came the fateful hour in wall street when every penny was swept from him.  i am a beggar he gasped when the whole dreadful truth broke upon him and i am too old to begin life again. it is better that i should die.  and die he did in the great city of new york. the shock was fatal and his body was brought back to briggsville and laid to rest beside the forms of his wife and little maggie that had died long before. jim was dazed by the unexpected blow. it became the privilege of tom gordon to act as his comforter but it was a long time before the little fellow came out from the valley of shadow into the lifegiving sunlight again.  but here was the solemn situation tom gordon and jim travers were orphans with no near relatives and with only their own hands to earn their daily bread. what was the best thing for them to do  this was the grave question which the two boys sat down to answer in the gloom of a wintry evening when they were about fourteen years of age. they had received plenty of counsel and much of it was excellent. the teacher the minister and numerous good neighbors had been as kind as they could possibly be and the youths knew no real hardship could come to them as long as they stayed in or near the place where they were born.  but they were not satisfied to do so. they felt they ought to strike out for themselves and briggsville was not the place to do it. the opportunities were too few.  they talked for a long time in an aimless way discussing numerous schemes but without agreeing upon any.  jim lets go to new york.  tom made the proposition as though it had come to him that moment when in truth it had been in his mind from the first as it was with jim who was on the point of uttering it but was waiting for his friend because he was a few months older and took the lead in all matters.  i wonder if that wouldnt be the best thing to do remarked jim like one to whom the idea was new.  neither of us has ever been in new york. it is a great place full of dangers of all kinds but there are chances for every one to get along if he will do whats right and isnt afraid to work.  if we should tell the people what we have in mind they would advise us to stay here or to try philadelphia.  we must pass philadelphia to get to new york but i dont feel like staying there do you jim  no i dont fancy the place. father took me there once when i was a wee younker and it struck me as being slow.  tom laughed at the thought of a little fellow being impressed that way by one of the leading cities in the union. he too had been in the large and handsome town but for some reason which he could not explain had formed a prejudice against it. he shook his head at the proposition of trying their fortunes there.  philadelphia isnt big enough for us he remarked quizzically new york is the only place where we can spread and grow.  then i propose we go to new york to seek our fortune. what do you say  well stick together.  and the young friends reached their hands toward each other and clasped them in the dim light of jim traverss room.  it was an important decision they had reached and they talked over the matter for a long time. each had quite a little sum of money which they had saved with scrupulous care. they had good serviceable clothing with something extra in the way of change. the executors of mr. travers had completed their duty and made their report to court. as in the case of the widow gordon not a penny was left for the boy and the house and everything it contained was to pass into the hands of strangers.  jim travers and tom gordon were occupying their single room on sufferance. the newcomers were to take possession on the first of the following month and a hint had been given the boys which it was impossible for them to misunderstand. their room was preferable to their company.  next tuesday is the first remarked jim i suppose we can stay here the few days until then.  thats less than a week. whats the use of waiting when we have made up our minds to go was the pertinent question of tom. i prefer not to meet those folks that are coming here.  thats the way i feel assented the younger striving to repress his ardor over the prospect. they will put on airs turn up their noses at us and make themselves at home. i cant bear he added his voice slightly trembling to see them parading through the house which father owned and walking into his room as if no one else had the right to go there.  well im glad jim that we think alike. tomorrow well bid our friends goodby and take the afternoon train to new york.  that suits me. it would hardly be right to slip off without saying anything to the fellows. well call on them all.  yes that is right. i promised sam harper to let him know about it.  i suppose you did and you wont forget to tell nellie.  jim laughed at his own sly remark and the handsome tom blushed at this reference to the pretty sister of his playmate.  the hour grew late but they sat a long time talking of what they would do when they made their home in the great metropolis. bridget the old servant warned them once or twice that it was past bedtime but seeing her words were unnoticed she withdrew and left them together.  ah when are the dreams of life so radiant as in early youth what pictures are so glowing so beautiful so vivid so real as those which come to the boy when he stands with his feet on the threshold and looks far out over the limitless fields which spread before his view the air lets finer sunlight through and the skies are more golden than they can ever be again. it is the hour when to him nothing in the whole wide world is impossible. it is a sweet soulstirring vision which alas too often is darkened or swept away by storm and mists and darkness and death.  the programme of the two boys was carried out with some modification the next day. they found when they came to go around among their friends to bid them goodby that it took longer than they had counted on. they separated and when night arrived tom was urged so cordially to stay and take supper with sam harper that he did not refuse.  then he had to remain a while in the evening which proved to be a most pleasant one to the visitor. the parents of his playmate were sensible people who finding the caller had made up his mind to go did not attempt to dissuade him. on the contrary they reminded him that under heaven he had every reason to hope for success.  the instruction received from your good mother said mr. harper i am sure can never be forgotten by you. you have a fair education for your age and i say to you as i did to jimmy travers when he stopped here a while ago be honest truthful obliging always and your reward is certain. you will meet with disappointments and all sorts of trials but keep up your courage. never let go hang fast take whatever comes in your way and do it with all your might and success is sure sooner or later.  i have made up my mind to that replied tom modestly. jimmy and i dont imagine that half the merchants in new york will be waiting at the ferry for us and will scramble over each other to see who shall have our services.  the gentleman smiled at the picture and his wife added  there are so many dangers and pitfalls that i tremble at the thought of two boys like tom and jim going into such a great city where they do not know a living person.  it is a matter for serious thought but hundreds have done the same before them and have achieved success.  have not some failed  doubtless the majority have failed to attain what they expected. but the same is true right here in briggsville and is true everywhere. i hold the doctrine that to the boy who is strong rugged honest willing not only to work but to wait that success is bound to come sooner or later.  tom was much encouraged by these wise words and felt a strengthening of the resolve he had formed the night before.  it was bright pretty nellie who now spoke.  wont it be splendid when tom becomes a rich merchant able to live in his fine house and have his horse and carriages and servants  i am afraid it will be a long time before i get that far replied the lad with a blush but i shall do it if there is any way possible.  riches are not the highest object in this life though they are well enough in their way. dont think so much about them as about doing your duty. be content to begin at the bottom of the ladder. it is an old saying but there never was a truer one that you will always find plenty of room at the top.  after some more pleasant conversation tom shook hands with his friends and bade them goodby. he ventured to give the delicate palm of nellie a little warmer squeeze than he had ever dared to do before and looked meaningly in her eyes. but she was diffident and did not return the pressure and he was not certain of the precise meaning of the look she gave him at parting.  he felt a trifle uncomfortable while walking homeward in the crisp moonlight.  i suppose nellie would feel quite proud of me if i ever become a rich man but suppose i dont. she always was a proud girl and likely enough will turn up her nose if i fail which i wont he added compressing his lips and walking faster.  tom found jim at home and waiting for him. they sat up late again talking over their grand scheme of seeking their fortune and even after they retired the hum of their conversation continued until far into the night.  the following morning they turned their backs upon briggsville forever. the ride to philadelphia was not far. they had decided to stop there for a time as there was no call for haste. neither held a thought of making their stay permanent. they strolled down chestnut street looking at the pleasing sights that are always to be met in that fashionable thoroughfare viewed some of the fine structures and stared until they were tired.  but they were eager to go on. the metropolis of the country was their destination and they would never be satisfied until they reached it. accordingly when the afternoon was well along they boarded the train and sped away to the northward. everything thus far even if interesting had been dull and commonplace but sooner than they anticipated they entered upon the most stirring and momentous experience of their lives.     chapter viii.    a man overboard  this was the startling cry that rang out from the multitude swarming forward on the ferryboat d. s. gregory one wintry night as she was approaching the dock at the foot of courtlandt street on her trip from jersey city.  for a few seconds confusion and excitement reigned supreme.  the boat was crowded with passengers many of whom had passed out of the forward cabin doors and were pushing toward the bow eager to be the first to leap ashore scarcely willing to wait till the latticelike gates were drawn aside to allow them to pass.  some were smoking many were talking and no one was dreaming of anything wrong when the alarming cry resounded through the frosty air.  the captain heard it on the instant as did the engineer for the latter checked the swinging of the ponderous workingbeam at the same second that he received the signal from the captaina thing which never happens unless in some such emergency.  as the throbbing of the engine ceased and the boat glided smoothly along there was such a general rush toward the bow that a dangerous dipping of the craft followeda peril which no one beside the officials on the vessel observed.  who is he  did he jump over  did he fall  was he pushed  can he be saved  where is he  these and similar questions were on a hundred lips and before any intelligible answer could be given a woman gave utterance to the most heartrending scream and made such frantic attempts to spring into the water that the intervention of several strong men was required to prevent her.  it must be her husband.  but the expression was yet in the mouth of the speaker when falling limp and despairing into the sturdy arms of the unknown friends she wailed  will no one save my child let me go to her she is all that is left to meoh let me die with her  its a little girl that fell overboard called out some one who had seen the accident. there she ishello  the last exclamation was caused by a second splash as a dark body clave the air and dropped into the water within a few yards of where the dress of the little girl could be faintly discerned.  heavens that is only a little boy called out an excited individual. are all the children to be drowned before our eyes  the general belief was that this lad through some strange mischance had also fallen into the river a belief which was quickly dispelled by another boy no doubt his playmate calling out  thats my chum tom and you neednt be afraid of him he can outswim a duck and a goose and a fish all together he jumped over to save that little girl seeing as all you big men was afraidand you can just bet hell do it too.  there was a tone of absolute certainty in these remarkable words which lifted a mountain from more than one heart and instantly transferred all interest to the brave young lad who had sprung into the water to save a little girl that was a stranger to him.  a cold wintry night was closing in when this accident took place and the lights from the shipping and the great city twinkled like myriads of stars.  great black hulls lay still and motionless in the water as if they were enormous ogres of the deep waiting for human prey to come into their vast maws steamtugs were puffing and darting here and there in and out among the shipping as though they were playing hideandseek with each other another ferryboat was just putting out from the dock on the new york side the paddlewheels crunching and grinding the chunks of ice as if masticating its food.  in the chilly gloom of the evening the crowds that swarmed to the gunwales and peered forward could see something floating in the water and though no one could define exactly what it was with the aid of the sight