breaking a spell  witchcraft said the old man thoughtfully as he scratched his scanty whiskers. no i aint heard o none in these parts for a long time. there used to be a little of it about when i was a boy and there was some talk of it arter id growed up but claybury folk never took much count of it. the last bit of it i remember was about forty years ago and that wasnt so much witchcraft as foolishness.  there was a man in this place thenjoe barlcomb by namewho was a firm believer in it and e used to do all sorts of things to save hisself from it. he was a newcomer in claybury and there was such a lot of it about in the parts he came from that the people thought o nothing else hardly.  he was a man as got imself very much liked at fust especially by the old ladies owing to his being so perlite to them that they used to old im up for an example to the other men and say wot nice pretty ways he ad. joe barlcomb was everything at fust but when they got to ear that his perliteness was because e thought arf of em was witches and didnt know which arf they altered their minds.  illustration he got imself very much liked especially by the old ladies.  in a month or two he was the laughingstock of the place but wot was worse to im than that was that hed made enemies of all the old ladies. some of em was freespoken women and e couldnt sleep for thinking of the arm they might do im.  he was terrible uneasy about it at fust but as nothing appened and he seemed to go on very prosperouslike e began to forget is fears when all of a sudden e went ome one day and found is wife in bed with a broken leg.  she was standing on a broken chair to reach something down from the dresser when it appened and it was pointed out to joe barlcomb that it was a thing anybody might ha done without being bewitched but he said e knew better and that theyd kept that broken chair for standing on for years and years to save the others and nothing ad ever appened afore.  in less than a week arter that three of his young uns was down with the measles and is wife being laid up he sent for er mother to come and nurse em. its as true as i sit ere but that pore old lady adnt been in the house two hours afore she went to bed with the yellow jaundice.  joe barlcomb went out of is mind amost. hed never liked is wifes mother and he wouldnt ave had er in the house ony e wanted her to nurse is wife and children and when she came and laid up and wanted waiting on e couldnt dislike her enough.  he was quite certain all along that somebody was putting a spell on im and when e went out a morning or two arterward and found is best pig lying dead in a corner of the sty he gave up and going into the ouse told em all that theyd ave to die cause he couldnt do anything more for em. his wifes mother and is wife and the children all started crying together and joe barlcomb when e thought of is pig he sat down and cried too.  he sat up late that night thinking it over and arter looking at it all ways he made up is mind to go and see mrs. prince an old lady that lived all alone by erself in a cottage near smiths farm. hed set er down for wot he called a white witch which is the best kind and ony do useful things such as charming warts away or telling gals about their future usbands and the next arternoon arter telling is wifes mother that fresh air and travelling was the best cure for the yellow jaundice he set off to see er.  illustration mrs. prince was sitting at er front door nursing er three cats.  mrs. prince was sitting at er front door nursing er three cats when e got there. she was an ugly little old woman with piercing black eyes and a hook nose and she ad a quiet artful sort of a way with er that made er very much disliked. one thing was she was always making fun of people and for another she seemed to be able to tell their thoughts and that dont get anybody liked much especially when they dont keep it to theirselves. shed been a ladys maid all er young days and it was very ard to be taken for a witch just because she was old.  fine day maam ses joe barlcomb.  very fine ses mrs. prince.  being as i was passing i just thought id look in ses joe barlcomb eyeing the cats.  take a chair ses mrs. prince getting up and dusting one down with er apron.  joe sat down. im in a bit o trouble maam he ses and i thought praps as you could help me out of it. my pore pigs been bewitched and its dead.  bewitched ses mrs. prince whod eard of is ideas. rubbish. dont talk to me.  it aint rubbish maam ses joe barlcomb three o my children is down with the measles my wifes broke er leg er mother is laid up in my little place with the yellow jaundice and the pigs dead.  wot another one ses mrs. prince.  no the same one ses joe.  well ow am i to help you ses mrs. prince. do you want me to come and nurse em  no no ses joe starting and turning pale unless youd like to come and nurse my wifes mother he ses arter thinking a bit. i was hoping that youd know whod been overlooking me and that youd make em take the spell off.  mrs. prince got up from er chair and looked round for the broom shed been sweeping with but not finding it she set down agin and stared in a curious sort o way at joe barlcomb.  oh i see she ses nodding. fancy you guessing i was a witch.  you cant deceive me ses joe ive ad too much experience i knew it the fust time i saw you by the mole on your nose.  mrs. prince got up and went into her backplace trying her ardest to remember wot shed done with that broom. she couldnt find it anywhere and at last she came back and sat staring at joe for so long that e was arf frightened out of his life. and byandby she gave a orrible smile and sat rubbing the side of er nose with er finger.  if i help you she ses at last will you promise to keep it a dead secret and do exactly as i tell you if you dont dead pigsll be nothing to the misfortunes that you will ave.  i will ses joe barlcomb very pale.  the spell ses mrs. prince holding up her ands and shutting er eyes was put upon you by a man. it is one out of six men as is jealous of you because youre so clever but which one it is i cant tell without your assistance. have you got any money  a little ses joe anxiouslike a very little. wot with the yellow jaundice and other things i  fust thing to do ses mrs. prince still with her eyes shut you go up to the cauliflower tonight the six menll all be there and you must buy six hapennies off of them one each.  buy six hapennies ses joe staring at her.  dont repeat wot i say ses mrs. prince its unlucky. you buy six hapennies for a shilling each without saying wot its for. youll be able to buy em all right if youre civil.  it seems to me it dont need much civility for that ses joe pulling a long face.  when youve got the hapennies ses mrs. prince bring em to me and ill tell you wot to do with em. dont lose no time because i can see that something worse is going to appen if it aint prevented.  is it anything to do with my wifes mother getting worse ses joe barlcomb who was a careful man and didnt want to waste six shillings.  no something to you ses mrs. prince.  joe barlcomb went cold all over and then he put down a couple of eggs hed brought round for er and went off ome agin and mrs. prince stood in the doorway with a cat on each shoulder and watched im till e was out of sight.  that night joe barlcomb came up to this ere cauliflower publichouse same as hed been told and byandby arter he ad ad a pint he looked round and taking a shilling out of is pocket put it on the table and he ses wholl give me a hapenny for that he ses.  none of em seemed to be in a hurry. bill jones took it up and bit it and rang it on the table and squinted at it and then he bit it agin and turned round and asked joe barlcomb wot was wrong with it.  wrong ses joe nothing.  bill jones put it down agin. youre wide awake joe he ses but so am i.  wont nobody give me a hapenny for it ses joe looking round.  then peter lamb came up and he looked at it and rang it and at last he gave joe a hapenny for it and took it round and everybody ad a look at it.  illustration he took it round and everybody ad a look at it.  it stands to reason its a bad un ses bill jones but its so well done i wish as id bought it.  hsh ses peter lamb dont let the landlord ear you.  the landlord ad just that moment come in and peter walked up and ordered a pint and took his tenpence change as bold as brass. arter that joe barbcomb bought five more hapennies afore you could wink amost and every man wot sold one went up to the bar and ad a pint and got tenpence change and drank joe barlcombs health.  there seems to be a lot o money knocking about tonight ses the landlord as sam martin the last of em was drinking is pint.  sam martin choked and put is pot down on the counter with a bang and him and the other five was out o that door and sailing up the road with their tenpences afore the landlord could get his breath. he stood to the bar scratching his ead and staring but he couldnt understand it a bit till a man wot was too late to sell his hapenny up and told im all about it. the fuss e made was terrible. the shillings was in a little heap on a shelf at the back o the bar and he did all sorts o things to em to prove that they was bad and threatened joe barlcomb with the police. at last however e saw wot a fool he was making of himself and arter nearly breaking his teeth e dropped them into a drawer and stirred em up with the others.  joe barlcomb went round the next night to see mrs. prince and she asked im a lot o questions about the men as ad sold im the hapennies.  the fust part as been done very well she ses nodding her ead at im if you do the second part as well youll soon know who your enemy is.  nothingll bring the pig back ses joe.  theres worse misfortunes than that as ive told you ses mrs. prince sharply. now listen to wot im going to say to you. when the clock strikes twelve tonight  our clock dont strike ses joe.  then you must borrow one that does ses mrs. prince and when it strikes twelve you must go round to each o them six men and sell them a hapenny for a shilling.  joe barlcomb looked at er. ow he ses shortlike.  same way as you sold em a shilling for a hapenny ses mrs. prince it dont matter whether they buy the hapennies or not. all youve got to do is to go and ask em and the man as makes the most fuss is the man that as put the trouble on you.  it seems a roundabout way o going to work ses joe.  wot screams mrs. prince jumping up and waving her arms about. wot go your own way ill have nothing more to do with you. and dont blame me for anything that happens. its a very bad thing to come to a witch for advice and then not to do as she tells you. you ought to know that.  ill do it maam ses joe barlcomb trembling.  youd better ses mrs. prince and mindnot a word to anybody.  joe promised her agin and e went off and borrered a clock from albert price and at twelve oclock that night he jumped up out of bed and began to dress imself and pretend not to ear his wife when she asked im where he was going.  it was a dark nasty sort o night blowing and raining and o course everybody ad gone to bed long since. the fust cottage joe came to was bill joness and knowing bills temper he stood for some time afore he could make up is mind to knock but at last he up with is stick and banged away at the door.  a minute arterward he eard the bedroom winder pushed open and then bill jones popped his cad out and called to know wot was the matter and who it was.  its mejoe barlcomb ses joe and i want to speak to you very partikler.  well speak away ses bill. you go into the back room he ses turning to his wife.  whaffor ses mrs. jones.  cos i dont know wot joe is going to say ses bill. you go in now afore i make you.  his wife went off grumbling and then bill told joe barlcomb to hurry up wot hed got to say as e adnt got much on and the weather wasnt as warm as it might be.  i sold you a shilling for a hapenny last night bill ses joe.  do you want to sell any more ses bill jones putting his and down to where is trouser pocket ought to be.  not exactly that ses joe barlcomb. this time i want you to sell me a shilling for a hapenny.  bill leaned out of the winder and stared down at joe barlcomb and then he ses in a choking voice is that wot youve come disturbing my sleep for at this time o night he ses.  i must ave it bill ses joe.  well if youll wait a moment ses bill trying to speak perlitely ill come down and give it to you.  joe didnt like is tone of voice but he waited and all of a sudden bill jones came out o that door like a gun going off and threw imself on joe barlcomb. both of em was strong men and by the time theyd finished they was so tired they could ardly stand. then bill jones went back to bed and joe barlcomb arter sitting down on the doorstep to rest imself went off and knocked up peter lamb.  peter lamb was a little man and no good as a fighter but the things he said to joe barlcomb as he leaned out o the winder and shook is fist at him was arder to bear than blows. he screamed away at the top of is voice for ten minutes and then e pulled the winder to with a bang and went back to bed.  joe barlcomb was very tired but he walked on to jasper pottss ouse trying ard as he walked to decide which o the fust two ad made the most fuss. arter he ad left jasper potts e got more puzzled than ever jasper being just as bad as the other two and joe leaving im at last in the middle of loading is gun.  by the time hed made is last callat sam martinsit was past three oclock and he could no more tell mrs. prince which ad made the most fuss than e could fly. there didnt seem to be a pin to choose between em and arf worried out of is life he went straight on to mrs. prince and knocked er up to tell er. she thought the ouse was afire at fust and came screaming out o the front door in er bedgown and when she found out who it was she was worse to deal with than the men ad been.  she ad quieted down by the time joe went round to see er the next evening and asked im to describe exactly wot the six men ad done and said. she sat listening quite quiet at fust but arter a time she scared joe by making a odd croupy sort o noise in er throat and at last she got up and walked into the backplace. she was there a long time making funny noises and at last joe walked toward the door on tiptoe and peeped through the crack and saw er in a sort o fit sitting in a chair with er arms folded acrost her bodice and rocking erself up and down and moaning. joe stood as if ed been frozen amost and then e crept back to is seat and waited and when she came into the room agin she said as the trouble ad all been caused by bill jones. she sat still for nearly arf an hour thinking ard and then she turned to joe and ses  illustration she sat listening quite quiet at fust.  can you read she ses.  no ses joe wondering wot was coming next.  thats all right then she ses because if you could i couldnt do wot im going to do.  that shows the arm of eddication ses joe. i never did believe in it.  mrs. prince nodded and then she went and got a bottle with something in it which looked to joe like gin and arter getting out er pen and ink and printing some words on a piece o paper she stuck it on the bottle and sat looking at joe and thinking.  take this up to the cauliflower she ses make friends with bill jones and give him as much beer as hell drink and give im a little o this gin in each mug. if he drinks it the spell will be broken and youll be luckier than you ave ever been in your life afore. when es drunk some and not before leave the bottle standing on the table.  joe barlcomb thanked er and with the bottle in is pocket went off to the cauliflower whistling. bill jones was there and peter lamb and two or three more of em and at fust they said some pretty ard things to him about being woke up in the night.  dont bear malice bill ses joe barlcomb ave a pint with me.  he ordered two pints and then sat down alongside o bill and in five minutes they was like brothers.  ave a drop o gin in it bill he ses taking the bottle out of is pocket.  bill thanked im and had a drop and then thoughtfullike he wanted joe to ave some in his too but joe said no hed got a touch o toothache and it was bad for it.  i dont mind aving a drop in my beer joe ses peter lamb.  not tonight mate ses joe its all for bill. i bought it on purpose for im.  bill shook ands with him and when joe called for another pint and put some more gin in it he said that e was the noblestarted man that ever lived.  you wasnt saying so arf an hour ago ses peter lamb.  cos i didnt know im so well then ses bill jones.  you soon change your mind dont you ses peter.  bill didnt answer im. he was leaning back on the bench and staring at the bottle as if e couldnt believe his eyesight. his face was all white and shining and is hair as wet as if it ad just been dipped in a bucket o water.  see a ghost bill ses peter looking at im.  bill made a orrible noise in his throat and kept on staring at the bottle till they thought ed gone crazy. then jasper potts bent his ead down and began to read out loud wot was on the bottle. poi poison for bill jones he ses in a voice as if e couldnt believe it.  you might ave heard a pin drop. everybody turned and looked at bill jones as he sat there trembling all over. then those that could read took up the bottle and read it out loud all over agin.  pore bill ses peter lamb. i ad a feeling come over me that something was wrong.  youre a murderer ses sam martin catching old of joe barlcomb. youll be ung for this. look at pore bill cut off in is prime.  run for the doctor ses someone.  two of em ran off as ard as they could go and then the landlord came round the bar and asked bill to go and die outside because e didnt want to be brought into it. jasper potts told im to clear off and then he bent down and asked bill where the pain was.  i dont think hell ave much pain ses peter lamb who always pretended to know a lot more than other people. itll soon be over bill.  weve all got to go some day ses sam martin. better to die young than live to be a trouble to yourself ses bob harris.  to ear them talk everybody seemed to think that bill jones was in luck everybody but bill jones imself that is.  i aint fit to die he ses shivering. you dont know ow bad ive been.  wot ave you done bill ses peter lamb in a soft voice. if itll ease your feelings afore you go to make a clean breast of it were all friends here.  bill groaned.  and its too late for you to be punished for anything ses peter arter a moment.  bill jones groaned agin and then shaking is ead began to wisper is wrongdoings. when the doctor came in arf an hour arterward all the men was as quiet as mice and pore bill was still wispering as ard as he could wisper.  the doctor pushed em out of the way in a moment and then e bent over bill and felt is pulse and looked at is tongue. then he listened to his art and in a puzzled way smelt at the bottle which jasper potts was aminding of and wetted is finger and tasted it.  illustration the doctor felt is pulse and looked at is tongue.  somebodys been making a fool of you and me too he ses in a angry voice. its only gin and very good gin at that. get up and go home.  it all came out next morning and joe barlcomb was the laughingstock of the place. most people said that mrs. prince ad done quite right and they oped that it ud be a lesson to him but nobody ever talked much of witchcraft in claybury agin. one thing was that bill jones wouldnt ave the word used in is hearing. 