This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
Hit me with your pet shark!
The lake is a long way from here.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
On each full moon
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
I am never at home on Sundays.
This is a Japanese doll.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
At last
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
I want more detailed information.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.